---
title: Release notes for Data API builder 0.5.32
description: Release notes for Data API builder 0.5.32 are available here.
author: anagha-todalbagi 
ms.author: atodalbagi
ms.service: data-api-builder 
ms.topic: whats-new 
ms.date: 03/13/2023
---

# What's New in Data API builder 0.5.32

- [Ability to customize rest path via CLI](#ability-to-customize-rest-path-via-cli)
- [Data API builder container image in MAR](#data-api-builder-container-image-in-mar)
- [Support for GraphQL fragments](#support-for-graphql-fragments)
- Generate NOTICE.txt in the pipeline for distribution and include LICENSE, README, NOTICE in zip, nuget, docker image
- [Turn on BinSkim and fix Policheck alerts](#turn-on-binskim-and-fix-policheck-alerts)

The full list of release notes for this version is available here: [version 0.5.32 release notes](https://github.com/Azure/data-api-builder/releases/tag/v0.5.32-beta)

## Ability to customize rest path via CLI

A new option `--rest.path` is introduced in the `init` command to customize the path for REST APIs.

For Example:

Running the below command,

```text
dab init --database-type mssql --connection-string "Connection-String" --rest.path "rest-api" 
```

configures the REST endpoints with a prefix of `rest-api`. The complete path for the REST endpoints is
`https://<dab-server>/rest-api/<entity-name>`

When `--rest.path` option isn't used, the REST endpoints are configured with the default prefix `api`. The complete path in this case is
`https://<dab-server>/api/<entity-name>`

## Data API builder container image in MAR

The official docker images for Data API builder for Azure Databases are now available in [Microsoft Artifact Registry](https://mcr.microsoft.com/product/azure-databases/data-api-builder/tags).

[This](https://mcr.microsoft.com/en-us/product/azure-databases/data-api-builder/about) page contains the instructions for using the published images.

## Support for GraphQL fragments

Fragments are reusable part of a graphQL query. In scenarios where the same fields have to be queried in different queries, the repeated fields can be consolidated into a single reusable component called fragment.

To read more about fragments, visit [here](https://graphql.org/learn/queries/)

A fragment called `description` on type `Character` is defined next

```graphql
fragment description on Character {
  name
  homePlanet
  primaryFunction
}
```

A GraphQL query that makes use of the defined fragment can be constructed as shown

```graphql
{
  Player1: Player{
    id
    playerDescription{
        ...description
    }
  }
}
```

For the above query, the result contains the following fields

```graphql
{
 Player1: Player{
    id
    playerDescription{
        name
        homePlanet
        primaryFunction
    }
  }   
}
```

## Turn on BinSkim and fix Policheck alerts

BinSkim is a Portable Executable (PE) light-weight scanner that validates compiler/linker settings and other security-relevant binary characteristics. A pipeline task in `static-tools` pipeline is added to perform BinSkim scans with every pipeline run. The PoliCheck system is a set of tools and data that helps stay compliant with the Text and Code Review Requirement, as part of the overall Global Readiness policy. The alerts generated by Policheck scans are fixed to be compliant with regard to sensitive terms.
